


CURRICULUM VITAE

Peter David Edwards

1/32 Brittain Street
Como
Western Australia
WA6152

Tel +61 (0)418 301138 (mobile)
Email: peterdedwards25@gmail.com


PROFILE

A determined highly motivated IT professional used to working under a great deal of pressure within extremely tight and exacting deadlines.  An effective thinker and doer with a keen attention to detail who has the ability to manage change in complex environments whilst displaying honesty and integrity at all times.  Proven experience of working and co-ordinating with a number of different teams to manage new projects up to and including implementation.  Excellent and varied experience utilising Agile and Waterfall methodologies.

Excellent communication and highly developed analytical skills with a very strong team work ethic.  Deep understanding of the software development lifecycle.  Vast experience dealing with both internal and external customers, all levels of management and third party vendors, where an empathetic approach has led to building of trust and sound relationships. 



CAREER AND ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE

Manager, Production Acceptance Testing and Continuity		Permanent		Oct 2011 - current
Service Integrity, Infrastructure Services, Enterprise Services
Bankwest

Manage and lead a team of five Production Acceptance and Service Continuity Managers.  Maintain and protect Production IT systems in a change managed environment by testing software and infrastructure in purpose built and maintained testing environments.  Understand and promote a deep understanding of the software development lifecycle.  Recommend and manage the provision of new test environments in line with Production specification.  Agree upgrades to existing test environments and manage testing in all prior to authorising signoff for Production deployment.   Define, document and communicate the strategies for Test Management and Service Continuity within the bank in accordance with APRA standards.  Manage and improve ITIL processes to align with ITIL best practice.

Achievements
Ensured annual change success rate of 99.9% for all tested Production changes ensuring confidence in IT change process 
Built key relationships between Business Continuity and Service Continuity improving and ensuring confidence in key vital Incident Management processes
Led team to comprehensively exceed internal NPS Customer Satisfaction target of 80% 
Led automation of cohabitation and regression script processes thereby driving Productivity and saving on average 3 hours per day
Led team to write Performance testing scripts utilising ITKO Lisa technology thereby enabling Performance test throughput to increase by 500% driving Productivity and enabling Production code speed to market
Promoted use of Pulse Check stations to achieve process deliverables, deliver what the customer requires, drive team ownership, promote team achievements whilst saving 10 man hours per week previously spent in meetings
Align Service Continuity to the Bankwest vision along with the service catalogue and associated processes to ensure complete Business alignment. Redesigned monthly risk based reporting whilst meeting and exceeding Key Performance Indicators
Championed Operational Acceptance Testing at the bank so we now have an OAT environment for most critical business system -  greatly reducing risk of any Production change impacting availability
  
Created a business risk matrix to identify any applications / systems not having an equivalent Acceptance Testing environment thereby substantiating and highlighting degrees of risk should a Testing environment not be provisioned
Promoted baseline Performance testing utilising mainframe environment at the weekend reducing risk associated with impacting Production performance and availability during the week





Manager, Operational Acceptance Testing		Permanent			Oct 2007  - Oct 2011
Service Introduction & Change Management
Bankwest (formerly HBOS Australia)

Manage and lead a team of three OAT Managers. As of March 2010 I had become the Team Lead for OAT within the Bank.  Prior to this time I had been an OAT Manager within the team. Responsibilities included managing the provision of new OAT environments, upgrading existing OAT environments and the management of all OAT testing.  I contributed at the Estimates stage - having responsibility for assessing future projects to understand the complexity and scope required for OAT. In addition I was responsible for defining, documenting and communicating the OAT Test strategy, whilst ensuring documentation was maintained for projects in accordance with OAT Management standards. The role also included managing the identification, tracking, reporting, resolution, and escalation of any issues, testing slippage or potential service impacting errors which may have been highlighted during testing (using Quality Center).  Upon completion of OAT, final approval of project readiness was made prior to conducting a handover to Implementation for the project to be deployed into Production.  

Key Achievements
Identified, agreed, built and documented the strategy for the role of Operational Acceptance Testing within the Bank
Agreed cross-team functional requirements to enable Operational Acceptance Testing to be supported within the Bank
Agreed, built and documented the Operational Acceptance Testing process to include testing of the following areas: Deployment, Cohabitation (Regression), Backout, Failover, Backup / Restore, Recovery and Performance





Acceptance Testing Environment Management Team Leader	Permanent		Nov 2005 – Sept 2007
Service Introduction & Change Management
HBOS plc UK

Manage a team of Environment Managers to build and support Operational Acceptance testing environments for HBOSplc.  These environments constituted a wide variety of applications across a number of different platforms including S/390, I-series, Unix and Microsoft Client Server.  All of the OAT environments were required to provide HBOS Group Technology with a ‘live-like’ environment on which to carry out amongst others, Performance Testing (using Loadrunner in the main), Release Acceptance Testing and Co-Existence testing.  

Key Achievements
Release Acceptance Testing (RAT) environment maintained and monitored to enable Release Testing to exceed Service Level Agreement enabling Production change to be managed within risk appetite  
Production specification and sized Ecommerce and Ebusiness web farms built, maintained and monitored in-line with Production to enable Operational Acceptance Testing to run successfully
All deployments for Release Testing and Operational Acceptance testing managed in exact accordance with Production process













Acceptance Testing Environment Manager		Permanent			May 2003 – Nov 2005
Service Introduction & Change Management
HBOS plc UK

Responsible for the build and first line support of complex projects entering the OAT Pre-Production environment.  Liaising closely with the OAT Manager, the project and the Performance team this role required a high degree of technical knowledge across a number of different platforms such as S/390, AS400, Unix and Microsoft web farms.  The role required co-ordination across a number of Group Technology teams to build and baseline the OAT environment, test it and then offer first line support to the Performance Team once it had been established the environment was fit for purpose.  Monitoring of the environment once Performance Testing was underway was a key element of the role

Key Achievements
Major Sainsbury’s Bank Ecommerce build and testing project completed ahead of schedule
Various white labelled projects to include the AA (Automobile Association) built and tested successfully to meet very tight deadlines

     
Problem Manager					Contract			Sep 2002 – May 2003
Managed Services
Co-operative Bank plc UK

Responsible for managing, investigating and recommending technical solutions to Problems between the Bank’s IT processes and other CWS owned organisations supported by Managed Services. Including the Bank these diversely included CIS, Co-op Travelcare, Co-op Funeral Services and others.  Principles were developed against the ITIL framework.  Managed implementation of new software / hardware in agreement with the Bank and the various businesses.  The role also included managing the relationship between the Bank and third party organisations including among others IBM, BT, Telewest, Fibernet and BACS whilst acting both as a customer and a provider

Key Achievements
Successfully defined and built the Problem Management role and process in line with the ITIL framework for the Bank
Contributed to defining and introducing the Configuration Management Database, Incident Management, Change Management and Release Management processes in line with the ITIL framework for the Bank


Service Analyst						Contract			Nov 2000 – Sep 2002
Service Management
IBM UK 										

Responsible for managing the outsourced relationship between IBM, the customer and IBM’s internal Service Delivery teams.  I managed and led new projects beyond implementation in accordance with the customer’s requirements (in this case the NHS).  Amongst other requirements the role involved holding monthly Service Reviews with the NHS and managing and collating performance statistics / analysis of trends.  I managed the implementation of new software and hardware in liaison with the customer 

Key Achievements
Exceeded availability targets of 99.7% for all three NHS trusts on the account for which I was responsible 
Built and developed key customer relationships with the NHS trusts to also include IBM’s key network provider – AT&T
Introduced monthly Service Review documentation for discussion at monthly reviews with the customer to exceed previous recognised Service Level Agreements in line with NHS guidelines









Shift Controller						Permanent			Aug 1996 – Nov 2000
Data Centre Operations
Abbey National plc UK

Responsible for managing a team of operators to maintain the smooth running of the Bank’s Computer systems.  Led team to regularly meet and exceed agreed SLA’s.  Liaised with external bodies, users and other associated organisations to ensure prompt and effective service provided at all hours of the day and night.  Led team to implement software / hardware upgrades to all systems.  Managed day to day requirements of all staff within the Operations Department to include regular appraisals / reviews and setting of performance and development plans

  

Team Leader						Permanent			1992 – Aug 1996
Systems Operations
National & Provincial Building Society UK


Shift Leader						Permanent			1988 – 1992


Computer Operator					Permanent 			1984 – 1988


Computer Controls Clerk				Permanent			1983 – 1984



EDUCATION AND PERSONAL INFORMATION

Qualifications :

Lead Management Australia				Leading and Managing for Results (Jan 2012)
					
PRINCE2 (Projects IN Controlled Environments)	Foundation Certificate in Project Management Methodology (Nov 2009)

ISTQB							Foundation Certificate in Software Testing (Feb 2008) (International Software Testing Qualifications Board)							

ISEB							ITILv3 Service Management Certificate (Nov 2010)
(Information Systems Examining Board)

Open University	Certificate in Management : - Managing Customer and Client Relations (Nov 2000)   and
							Effective Manager (May 2000)

Burnley Grammar School				8 ‘O’ levels, 2 ‘AO’ levels, 1 ‘A’ level

	
Outside Interests :

Cycling, Football, Cricket, Motorsport, Music


Referees available on request

								

