BRYAN TAN
PE +61 8 6109 3800
Tel:
WEBSITE www.planit.net.au
Name:
Date:
Planit Contact:
May 2014 Simon Farrant
08 6109 3811
!CAREER SUMMARY !
Bryan is an experienced Test Consultant who is certified as an ISTQB Advanced Test Manager. He is experienced in all testing phases and methodologies of the software development lifecycle and started his career as a Test Analyst nine years ago. As a Test Consultant, Bryan is particularly knowledgeable in managing multiple test teams or porfolios within a variety of industries, including but not limited to Banking, Telecommunications and Government. Bryan has had a lot of experience with applications such as Siebel CRM, Financial Planning software, Portal systems, Telecommunication platforms and Mainframe systems. He has extensive experience in both the project delivery and operational testing environments. As an enthusiastic, conscientious, and reliable professional, his key strengths include his interpersonal and
!communication skills, as well as having a keen eye in improving testing processes across different methodologies. P!LANIT ASSIGNMENTS
January 2011 to present
Tes!t Consultant – Planit Software Testing Limited
!
consulting
| managed services
Test Manager / HBF Project: Siebel Upgrade May 2014 to Current
My role in HBF is the initial engagement for Planit with HBF. The role is to consist of two focuses.
1. To consult on best practices on testing in HBF with a goal of uplifting the test capability within the organisation.
2. Deliver on the Siebel upgrade project. The project is seeking to upgrade their Siebel version following a two phased approach. The first phase consists of upgrading their current production version from 8.1.1.7 to 8.1.1.11 and the second phase is to enable Siebel Open UI. As the expected functionality is to be like for like, only regression is targeted which the organisation wishes to automate for future reusability with long term cost benefits.
Main Responsibilities:
▪
▪ ▪
▪ ▪
▪
▪ ▪
▪ ▪
▪ ▪
Provide continuing consultancy on testing and align the test capability to industry best practices.
Testing representative for the Siebel upgrade project.
Managed the team of resources for the project which included automation and business resources assigned to me.
Managed budgets and estimates for testing.
Managed stakeholder, senior management, Portfolio Test Manager for testing.
Strategic testing advisor on approach’s, methodologies and best practice for testing at HBF.
Reported to project sponsors, senior management, and other projects.
Involved in improving / advising on testing processes both within and beyond my immediate projects.
Managed test planning on testing deliverables and test team activities.
Coordinated Data and Environment requirements ensuring they were met for testing.
Managed defects and saw them through to resolution.
Helped develop internal staff members within the organisation’s Test Capability team.

Test Consultant / CBH Project: TPI
March 2014 to March 2014
Test Manager / Inland Revenue Department
Projects:
1. CME
May 2013 to December 2013
2. Web Content Management Upgrade project
September 2013 to December 2013 3. GST Cross Boarder project September 2013 to December 2013
Based on a two resource team, two Planit consultants including myself were requested onsite by the Cooperative Bulk Handling (CBH) group to conduct a Test Process Improvement recommendation on their current automation capabilities.
The completion of this improvement review resulted in a detailed report and a presentation with our findings.
Based on the presentation and report, Planit were asked to recommend a test automation tool and framework for CBH.
Working on three projects as the Test Manager.
Project 1: The Compliance Management Environment (CME) – This project consisted of a collection of systems, processes and tools which together enabled IR to predict, identify, monitor, profile, analyse and prioritise compliance risk in near real time as information is received.
Project 2: Web Content Management Upgrade – This project consisted purely of upgrading the IRD’s internal Web Content Management system allowing for better IBM vendor support and new enhancements.
Project 3: GST Cross Border – The project involved a legislative change for the IRD allowing foreign companies to register for and claim back GST when doing business with local New Zealand services. This change predominantly targeted the IRD’s mainframe and portal systems.
Main Responsibilities:
￼
Review, analyse, design, and implement the Testing Strategy and/or Plan for the projects. An Agile approach was used for CME and Waterfall for the Web content Management upgrade and GST Cross Boarder projects.
Key testing representative for all projects.
Managed the testing components under an Agile and Waterfall methodology.
Managed a team of fifteen resources between all projects.
Managed budgets and estimates for testing.
Managed stakeholder, senior management, Testing Services Manager for testing.
Testing advisor on approach’s, methodologies and best practice Reported to project sponsors, senior management, and other projects.
Involved in improving / advising on testing processes both within and beyond my immediate projects.
Managed test planning on testing deliverables and test team activities. Managed defects and saw them through to resolution.
Help develop internal staff within the organisation’s Test Capability team who was involved in my projects.


Test Manager / Inland Revenue Department
Project: eAlerts
August 2012 to May 2013
Following from the previous eGST project (below), the eAlerts project targeted further enhancements of the eGST experience and functionality by allowing customers to sign up for electronic communications advising them on information regarding their GST.
This project was being delivered by utilising existing and implementing brand new technologies into the Inland Revenue Department.
Main Responsibilities:
▪ Testing representative for the eAlerts project.
▪ Managed a team of eleven resources for the eAlert project which included
Development resources assigned to me during test execution.
▪ Managed budgets and estimates for testing. This entailed System, System Integration, User Acceptance, Regression, Performance Testing, and Product Verification Testing.
▪ Managed stakeholder, senior management, Testing Services Manager for testing.
▪ Testing advisor on approach’s, methodologies and best practice.
▪ Reported to project sponsors, senior management, and other projects.
▪ Involved in improving / advising on testing processes both within and beyond my immediate projects.
▪ Managed test planning on testing deliverables and test team activities.
▪ Coordinated Data and Environment requirements ensuring they were met for
testing.
▪ Managed defects and saw them through to resolution.
▪ Helped develop internal staff within the organisation’s Test Capability team who were involved in my projects.
IR identified the need to submit GST returns through an authenticated eService. In order to accomplish this functionality, IR used existing Online Services for the customer to register for and use an authenticated GST return process.
Customers registered for Online Services and GST returns to be able to access GST return functionality through the existing IR Online Services. This project delivered the systems to enable authenticated online saving, editing, and submitting of GST returns.
Main Responsibilities:
Test Manager / Inland Revenue Department
Project: eGST
May 2012 to August 2012


Testing representative for the eGST project.
Managed a team of ten resources for the eGST project which included Development resources assigned to me during test execution and business users during User Acceptance and Product Verification Testing.
Managed budgets and estimates for testing. This entailed System, System Integration, User Acceptance, Regression, Performance Testing, and Product Verification Testing.
Managed stakeholder, senior management, and Testing Service Manager.
Testing advisor on approach’s, methodologies and best practice.
Reported to project sponsors, senior management, and other projects.
Involved in improving / advising on testing processes both within and beyond my immediate projects.
Managed test planning on testing deliverables and test team activities.
Coordinated Data and Environment requirements ensuring they were met for testing.
Managed defects and saw them through to resolution.
Helped develop internal staff within the organisation’s Test Capability team who were involved in my projects.


Test Manager / Inland Revenue Department
Projects :
1. xPression
2. BAU
November 2011 to April 2012
Project 1. The xPression – This project aimed to migrate all of the department’s letters from the legacy platform to the xPression platform allowing for an increased capability for future enhancements planned for all automated letters.
Project 2. BAU - The BAU Test Team’s main responsibility was to test any fixes or improvements conducted on any of the production systems in IR as required.
Main Responsibilities:
￼￼!
consulting |
managed services | testing !| business analysis | licensing | training

Testing representative for the xPression project and the BAU test team. Managed budgets and estimates for testing on the Project and BAU tasks.
Managed stakeholder, senior management, and Test Capability Manager and vendor relations for testing.
Testing advisor on approach’s, methodologies and best practice. Reported to project sponsors, senior management, and other projects.
Involved in improving / advising on testing processes both within and beyond my immediate projects.
Managed test planning on testing deliverables and test team activities for both the xPression project and BAU Test Team.
Coordinated all Data and Environment requirements ensuring they were met for each phase of testing.
Managed defects for each phase of testing and saw them through to resolution. Manage testing for both areas as they were running concurrently.
Helped develop internal staff within the organisation’s Test Capability team who were involved in my projects.


Test Manager / Inland Revenue Department
Projects:
1. Siebel Debt Optimisation
2. Voice Biometrics
January 2011 to October 2011
Project 1: The Siebel Debt Optimisation – The project implemented a new outbound dialling system for the Inland Revenue Department’s call centre. The new system has been integrated with numerous existing systems, which allowed operators to contact a higher volume of customers, and has enabled the organisation to achieve a more effective approach in dealing with debt returns.
Project 2: The Voice Biometrics - This project integrated a security voice recognition technology within the organisation’s existing telephony systems. The new security system allows customers to enrol their digital voice signature against his or her account preventing identity theft and fraudulent activity.
Additionally, in part of working with the Inland Revenue Department’s Testing Capability, I have been involved and tasked in improving testing processes. My involvement in the Capability’s processes include Test estimation, Test Tool utilisation, Reporting and the Software Development Lifecycle.
Main Responsibilities:


Testing representative for both the Debt Optimisation and Voice Biometrics projects.
Managed a team of eight resources for the Debt Optimisation project which included business users during User Acceptance and Product Verification Testing.
Managed a team of five resources for the Voice Biometrics project which included business users during User Acceptance and Product Verification Testing.
Managed budgets and estimates for testing on both projects.
Managed stakeholder, senior management, and Test Capability Manager and vendor relations for testing.
Testing advisor on approach’s, methodologies and best practice. Reported to project sponsors, senior management, and other projects.
Involved in improving / advising on testing processes both within and beyond my immediate projects.
Managed test planning on testing deliverables and test team activities for the two projects.
Coordinated all Data and Environment requirements ensuring they were met for each phase of testing.
Managed defects for each phase of testing and saw them through to resolution. Manage testing for both projects as they were running concurrently.
Develop internal staff within the organisation’s Test Capability team who were involved in my projects.


Test Lead / AMP
Coin, Siebel, and Remuneration September 2009 to January 2010
To lead the testing required for three of the four applications within our Portfolio and report back to the Test Manager, stakeholders, and senior management. The three applications were.
Siebel and Remuneration – My role for this was to focus on leading the testing for the maintenance and enhancement releases. This occurred on a quarterly basis in conjunction with the major AMP IT releases. Test phases that I lead for this application were System Test, SIT, Regression, and PVT.
Coin – At this stage, Coin had just replaced its predecessors; Moneywise Technology and Visiplan. My role was to lead the Template stream seeing to fortnightly releases and lead the testing for System Test, UAT, Regression, and PVT.
Main Responsibilities:

Liaised with the Vendor, Stakeholders/Business customers and senior management.
Reported to both the Test Manager and senior management.
Lead a team of four to eight resources depending on the size of the release.
Involved in process enhancements and alignment between the three systems tested by our team.
Organised resourcing for each of the three systems mentioned above during release.
Planned and lead testing deliverables and test team activities during all releases. This included the creation and execution of test plans.
Managed defects for each phase of testing and tracked them through to resolution.

Test Lead (Portfolio Test Manager - Acting) / AMP
Financial Planning Software (Planner Technology)
March 2009 to September 2009
This role is essentially the same as my last role in AMP as described above between Jan ’10 to Dec ’10. The role initially involved leading the test team for AMP’s financial planning software. However, due to a highly fluctuating demand and supply model of work during this period, the team could not secure a permanent Test Manager role and I was subsequently provided the opportunity to act in this role. Applications that I managed included:
Siebel – Software used in AMP to manage various client data. Test phases managed were System Test, SIT, UAT, Regression, and PVT.
Illustrations – Tool used by Planners to provide quotes to clients for AMP products. Test phases managed were System Test, SIT, UAT, Regression, and PVT.
Remuneration – Planner remuneration software which is used by internal business staff.
Portal UAT – This test stream looked after the UAT, Regression and PVT phases for AMP’s planner portal site which is mostly used by AMP’s Planners and Planner staff.
Moneywise Technology and Visiplan – Both are financial planning software much like Coin. Used by AMP financial planners to provide advice to clients. Test phases managed were UAT, Regression, and PVT.
Main Responsibilities:

Represented testing for the Planner Technology portfolio.
Managed a team of eight to twelve resources depending on the size of the release.
Managed budgets and estimates for testing.
Managed stakeholder, senior management, and vendor relations for testing.
Reported on testing to senior management and other projects and portfolio’s.
Involved in improving / advising on testing processes both within and beyond my immediate team.
Managed testing deliverables and test team activities for the four applications within our portfolio during all releases. Deliverables included writing Test Strategy’s and organising the completion of test plans.
Coordinated all Data and Environment requirements ensuring they were met for each phase of testing.
Managed defects for each phase of testing and tracking them through to resolution.


Senior Test Analyst / AMP Financial Planning Software September 2007 to March 2009
To lead the test team at an operational level for AMP’s financial planning software releases. At the time, this comprised of Moneywise Technology, Visiplan, and Illustrations. I would report on testing to the Test Manager, stakeholders, and senior management.
Illustrations – Tool used by Planners to provide quotes to clients for AMP products. Testing phases that I lead were System Test, SIT, UAT, Regression, and PVT.
Moneywise Technology and Visiplan – Used by AMP financial planners to provide advice to clients. Testing phases that I lead were UAT, Regression, and PVT.
Main Responsibilities:
▪ Managed stakeholder, senior management, and vendor relations for testing.
▪ Reported on testing to management, projects and portfolio’s.
▪ Lead a team of three to five resources depending on the size of the release.
▪ Involved in process enhancements and alignment between all software/systems tested by our team.
▪ Planned and lead testing deliverables and test team activities for AMP’s Financial Planning software during all releases. This included the creation and execution of all release test plans.
▪ Coordinated all Data and Environment requirements ensuring they were met for each phase of testing.
▪ Managed defects for each phase of testing and tracking them through to resolution.
To assist as a Test Analyst on various projects that saw to a release or a launch of web based and standalone applications and systems. I was involved in System Testing, SIT, UAT, Regression, and PVT. Such projects include:
Illustrations – Operational monthly and quarterly maintenance releases
AURA – Project which implemented automated underwriting and straight through
processing technology for AMP’s insurance applications.
Portal Upgrade – This project saw to upgrade AMP’s planner Portal site implementing various new functionality and content for Planners to access.
Easylodge – Implementation of online applications for AMP products. This technology allows planners to lodge electronic applications for AMP clients.
Main Responsibilities:
▪ Reported on testing to the Test Lead and/or Test Manger
▪ Involved in the following test phases depending on the project: System Test, SIT,
UAT, Regression, Sociability Testing, and PVT.
▪ Prepared and executed test scripts.
▪ Raised and saw defects through to resolution
Involved in inbound and outbound calls for various campaigns either to sell or inform the customer of various products.
Main Responsibilities:
￼￼!
consulting | managed services | testing !| business analysis | licensing | training
Test Analyst / AMP Operational and Project
May 2005 to September 2007
Part Time Inbound and Outbound Telemarketer / Teleperformance
Telemarketing
January 2003 to November 2004
▪
Involved in making various Cold / Warm / Inbound calls for campaigns, such as American Express, Daily Telegraph, Market Research, Global Shop Direct, Medecins Sans Frontieres, and Time music.


Part Time Sampling Staff (Ad Hoc Coordinator/Assistant) / Creative Field Marketing
On field staff
January 2003 to November 2004
Tours and Travels Officer / Saptawira Tours and Travels
Travel Bookings
January 2000 to November 2001
To promote various products in the market and to help coordinate sampling staff around Sydney.
Main Responsibilities:
▪ As a part-time sampling staff, I performed event promotions, and in store promotions for companies such as AOL, Nescafe, Berri Daily Juice, Viking Cadbury, Sunday Morning herald, Hyundai, and various others.
▪ As an ad hoc coordinator/assistant, I conducted phone screenings for staff applicants, venue bookings, roster organising, and various administrative duties for the launch of campaigns.
To provide booking services for tours and travel to clients.
Main Responsibilities:
▪ Made reservations for inbound and outbound travellers by arranging flights, accommodation, and touring reservations.
▪ Maintained client itineraries.

Tools:
▪ IBM Rational Quality Manager
▪ HP Quality Centre
!
Software Testing Skills:
▪ CustomisationandworkflowmanagementinQualityCenter ▪ Teststrategy,design,planningandexecution.
▪ TestingVmodel&Agiletestingtechniques
▪ Exploratoryandrisk-basedtestingtechniques
Management Testing Skills:
▪ Team management
▪ Offshore team collaboration and management
▪ Managed service experience
▪ Process improvement
▪ Project test management
▪ Issue and risk tracking and reporting
▪ Consultant appraisals
▪ Mentoring and support
▪ Budget control

Operating Systems:
SKILL SETS

QUALIFICATIONS


ProficientinWindows7,Vista,XP,MSWord,MSExcel,ProjectManagerand Powerpoint
MacOSX


Macquarie University – BA in Media and Cultural Studies (IT Multimedia, Broadcasting, Print, Philosophy, and Critical Thinking)
▪ SIBT Macquarie University – Diploma in Communications (IT, Public Relations, and Business studies)
▪ Insearch UTS – Certificate IV in Business Studies (Economics, Accounting, IT, and Business)