Scrum Master Certified, Prince 2, ISEB Certified 10 yrs of Testing/Lead Experience
Aditya Tandon
￼PERSONAL DETAILS
Key Skills
Test Manager (VP) JP Morgan Bank, London
Extensive Management experience, mainly in Banking & Media.
Certified SCRUM MASTER,
Certified ISEB,
Certified PRINCE 2(foundation) certified,
Feb 2014 till now
 Using BDD/Cucumber, Specflow for .Net Automation.
 I am bringing a fresh perspective to Bank which is agile,less time
consuming, transparent and adds value to existing product
 Currently, I am involved in facilitating communication with Product Owner and Business Analyst to fetch requirements, convert them into
story and write AC,s before they picked up in sprint.
 The role demands working on creating inhouse complex testing solutions
from scratch as in current project there was no testing at all.
 I am also transforming one of my project to adopt TDD/BDD approach
where testers and developers are doing pair programming.
 I am also developing powershell scripts which help in automation.
 I am creating my own Test framework from scratch using open source
tools Specflow, C#, SOAP UI .
 Creating a framework for performance testing using Visual Studio load
test runner.
 Strong Web automation experience using Selenium/Webdriver.
 Experience of building and coaching test team
 Consultancy experience of Agile coaching and consulting
 Build and Infrastructure experience - Jenkins, Maven, Saucelabs
 Coding skills in Ruby, C# and whatever important for project
￼￼￼Test Lead
Expedia, London Office Feb 2013 till Feb 2014



 

Currently, I am leading 4 teams, which comprises of 9 testers. I am responsible for implementing automation using Cucumber/Ruby framework.
Extend the capability of the framework on a continuous basis by incorporating open source tools and technologies.
Experience of using Phantom CSS which is automated image comparison framework.
Build Cross browser testing framework from scratch – i.e Sauce Labs. Currently, 70% of the features are automated and tested with Sauce Labs and
they are wired up with Jenkins.
I am quite hands on so able to code in ruby. Currently, my job responsibility
is split between management of resources and technical lead providing strategy for testing.
[10 yrs experience of testing and Agile coaching] [Agile Expert ] [2012-07-19 ] CV Aditya Tandon 1/4
Scrum Master Certified, Prince 2, ISEB Certified 10 yrs of Testing/Lead Experience
Test Lead
BBC, London, White City Permanent Apr11 to Feb 2013 (British Broadcasting Corporation)
 I was heavily involved in coaching of AGILE /SCRUM/KANBAN process and mentoring the teams and external outsourced test resource supplier.
 Involved in Performance testing and created test plans for Load testing using J Meter and have knowledge of security testing .
 Currently doing automation of .Net based websites using BDD tool SpecFlow and knowledge of UML for business analysis .
 Introduction of code review and Automated acceptance testing using BDD (Capybara+Rspec+Ruby+Selenium Web driver) and cucumber – jvm and working on JIRA,confluence, and Hudson as the CI tools .
 Created feature files in Cucumber and step definition in ruby. Cucumber was also used as a tool for instigating the conversation amongst the Business Analyst, stakeholders, developers and testers.
 Stakeholder management, reporting and communication and managing the releases were the primary responsibility and removing impediments for delivery and managed the timely delivery.
 Managing the defects and liaising with devs /project managers to prioritise the defects and later designated as “Defect Lead “.
 Strong Unix and SQL (RDMS) skills with in-depth knowledge of SDLC.
 Management of the overall test schedule, resources, dependencies, risks,
issues and change requests and worked with offshort Test partner as well.
 Involved heavily in the automation and creation of automation frameworks
using BDD and TDD approach and continuous delivery approach.
Technology: Cucumber, Capybara, Rspec, Java, Ruby, JavaScript, Jira and Confluence. Quality Centre, GIT Subversion, Oracle DB,XML, webshpere, Toad SQL, Performance Testing using “Jmeter”,My SQL.
Lead Test Engineer /Scrum Master DTG (Digital Tele Group) London
Contract
Nov10 to Mar11
Key Responsibilities:
 Main activities include helping the Products Owners with product backlog
management, produce various reports for Programme Management, ensure Teams do not have any blocking problem, interact with other Teams to progress the various interdependencies, coach the Teams on Scrum principles and guidelines and obviously ensure the build progresses as planned.
 ARCHITECT THE QA using the BDD Process and framework which aim to test the complex components .
 Mentored teams for good Agile practices making them more functional, productive, and harmonized. My job was to create automated MHEG test suites which will run on Set top boxes conforming the standards set by UK government.
 My test suites suppose worked on SMART TV, Bskyb, HUMAX set top boxes verifying the conformance according to UK standards.
 In –depth knowledge of Set to box automation and architecture and performed network sniffing using tools like Wire shark, Tcp dump.
 Implemented BDD in my team and project along with Kanban
[10 yrs experience of testing and Agile coaching] [Agile Expert ] [2012-07-19 ] CV Aditya Tandon 2/4
Scrum Master Certified, Prince 2, ISEB Certified 10 yrs of Testing/Lead Experience
Technology: Unix , Linux, Java ,SVG,Oracle 11i ,PHP , apache and JavaScript , QUnit. Junit was used for unit testing .
Agile -Scrum Coach/QA Engineer Quative Ltd . Permanent Apr 09 to Oct 10
I was responsible for all aspects of operational QA, recruitment, strategy, and day to day team management. Small team of 3-4 testers.
Key Responsibilities

  
 
    
Test Consultant /Lead
Working closely with development managers on the adoption of new strategies and priorities for future development
Managed automated regression testing on 4 environments.
Project Management: Defect Management and supplier management (x4)
I worked closely with Project Management, Development, and the various product teams across the business to ensure a full and comprehensive approach to QA was carried out in compliance with industry best practice. Quality Centre v9.0 for tracking execution and managing defects.
Created a transparent process called “Quality gate “which handled effective communication between developers and testers.
I was responsible for delivery of UAT Management and release support process spreading across multiple projects.
I introduced JMeter for performance testing as well as web services testing, successfully reduced time of manual testing. It was reduced to 1/4th.
Created regression suite where legacy part of the application was automated ensuring that every release is stable.
I introduced the test environment, defect management process and spread the knowledge of agile/scrum at portfolio level.
Excellent RDBMS knowledge including SQL and/or Oracle
Aminocom, Cambridge Contract July 08-Apr 09
Successful delivery process created and strived under pressure to constantly deliver the QA and releases on time .
Key Responsibilities:
 Led the manual QA team delivering a complex billing and order capture
system working within agile SCRUM methodology, reporting status through
SCRUM meetings
 Participated in Sprint planning and estimation as Lead QA advising of test
efforts
 Held responsibility for quality of test scripts and all test procedure adherence
within the team
 Managed and performed Integration testing, System testing and Live testing.
 Assessed the feasibility of tools including Load runner, Borland Silk runner,
IBM Facilita, Compuware, and others.
 Implemented new QA Strategy and Policies to launch a new Top level
domain
[10 yrs experience of testing and Agile coaching] [Agile Expert ] [2012-07-19 ] CV Aditya Tandon 3/4
Scrum Master Certified, Prince 2, ISEB Certified 10 yrs of Testing/Lead Experience
Test Lead/Test Engineer CAPGEMINI Permanent Nov 06 to July 08
An Agile (BDD) software house, the market leader in Requirements Management (RM). Successfully delivered nine projects in 18 months, typically two in parallel, maximum six.
Key Responsibilities:
Responsibility for the delivery of Testing on Web services and SOA under Windows and Unix (Solaris and Red Hat).
 Introduced Structured test design methodology (ANSI/IEE based) and risk
assessment.
 Managed performance testing (Load runner) and Environment setup.
 Line Management of all testing staff
 Managed all Development and QA outsource teams to deliver products.
Managed Unit, Manual, Integration, UAT and Performance testing phases.
 Used Quality Centre v9.5 for building and executing test cases, tracking to
requirements, and managing defects.
 Restructured old and implemented new UAT methods and processes.
 Demonstrated commitment to delivery of quality solutions and ensured that
each project was properly resourced to deliver on this commitment
 Created end-to-end test plans, test scripts, and manual test scenarios for use
within UAT
 Trained Business Users in the use of test scenarios and defect/issue logging
applications
 Developed and maintained stable UAT environments.
 Defined QA process, risk based testing and was responsible for the overall
planning activities and individual tasks across the test team.
Technology: ISO9001, Java, C#, Web logic, Oracle, Toad, VIA/Webspher/MQ, XML Spy, Windows XP+2003+Vista+2000+NT, Solaris, Red hat Linux 4/5, Synergy, Oracle, Citrix, Load runner, WinRunner QuickTestPro, Quality Centre, Vmware. Integration partners: Quality Centre, Rational Clear case
Snr Test Engineer/Test Engineer Halifax Bank of Scotland Aug 03 –Nov 06
Ran testing on two large Connex v-model projects to integrate Ulster Bank systems into Halifax Group. Data Migration of accounting and ATM warehouses.
END OF CV
[10 yrs experience of testing and Agile coaching] [Agile Expert ] [2012-07-19 ] CV Aditya Tandon 4/4
