Sally Hanna
+(61) 404 841 113
sallyhanna02@gmail.com



PROFILE


A testing and quality Assurance professional with more than 11 year’s experience, with forward thinking and an achievement oriented focus, I consider myself to be a well-developed manager with an emphasis on continuous improvement, innovation and strategic leadership and planning.  

Experienced in implementing defined testing methodologies within a structured environment and driving a successful provision of the highest level of customer service. Thriving on new challenges and delivering results through collaboration and a determination to meet a desired outcome. Highly developed analytical skills and excellence in providing problem resolution.


Strong relationship management skills with an ability to build and maintain relationships with a variety of stakeholders across the business. Providing authoritative guidance and advice to project members. Excellent people leadership, encouraging an environment where empowerment is key and outcomes are achieved through coaching and mentoring.




CAREER SUMMARY


Bankwest 

Test Delivery Manager 	2012 – 2014
Test Deliery Lead 	2008 – 2012
Senior Test Analyst 	2005 – 2007

Bunnings 

Oracle Programmer	2002 – 2005






Business Experience

BANKWEST
Test Delivery Manager 	April 2012 – August 2014

Responsible for test management of projects throughout the project lifecycle. A thought leader around methodology in the online space with an emphasis on continuous improvement and innovation through introduction of automation tools.


Responsibilities 

Managed all testing activities for Online domain consisting of 5 delivery teams. 
Defining test strategies for projects 
Resource planning activities for Solution testing team
Involved in planning and estimation activities for portfolio.
Monitored testing activities and ensured its compliance with company standards and policies.
Proactive working relationship with delivery and business partners to deliver portfolio.
Compiling test metrics for management.
Organised team meetings and workshops.
Managed performance reviews for 12 direct reports.
Identify test approaches that optimize the delivery schedule.
Coordinating the work for the test team and monitoring their performance.
Lead Proof of concept for several automation tools.
Reporting to senior management on progress and issues.
Managed Cross Browser testing activities 
Vendor management for tools suite 
 

Achievements

Increased percentage of manual testers to automated testers within Online domain from 10% to 100%.
Drive shift to the left initiative, creating tests at the service layer, reducing testing time by 70%
Implemented SAHI Pro tool for cross for cross browser testing and achieved 80% decrease in Regression testing effort for the Application capture system.
Maintained a static team size within Online domain by utilising automation tools while developer community doubled in size to support delivery projects
Involved in Continuous delivery initiative by implementing CD in online domain.
Implemented and managed and an automation framework for Mobile testing.
Implemented cross browser strategy   
Implemented process efficiencies within online domain by adopting automation tools. 
Led functional testing automation working group across the Solution Testing team
Increased re-usability of tests scripts resulting in a decrease of  maintenance time,  especially for mobile and browser testing.
Helped adopt and mature Agile methodology across Online domain.
Organised several internal training sessions saving budget for cost centre
Managed several complex projects leading them to successful implementation.
Provided guidance and advise to several companies on testing
Initiated the creation of test data using automation tools saving weeks of data creation efforts.
First team within bank to implement integration of functional tool with service layer tests for data creation.
Presented at the CBA annual conference in Sydney covering Enterprise Automation.



BANKWEST
Test Delivery Lead	August 20   07 – March 2012

Responsible for leading all testing activities for projects throughout the project lifecycle. Led testing of the largest 2 projects (Two factor authentication and International trade projects) for the bank during this time with successful implementation. 

Responsibilities 


Led projects with testing team that consists of up to 20 testers 
Led multiple concurrent projects
Involved in estimation activities for the portfolio  
Creation of the Test Plan and Test Exit Pack for each project
Coordination of scripting & execution phases for functional and non-functional 
Creation of testing status and defect reports and communication to the stakeholders
Coordinating test stand up meetings and sharing pertinent information with Test 
Delivery Manager and Project Managers
Management of defects to closure
Testing based on the agreed test approach
Tracking spend project budget against estimate
Be the first point of contact for the project team and escalate where appropriate in a timely manner
Proactively  provide performance feedback to Test Managers
Attendance at project meetings as required to share relevant information with testers


Achievements

Led multiple large and complex projects to successful implementation
Conversion of manual to automation of cross browser testing. Increased coverage of browsers   
Led the Two Factor Authentication project for Online banking which was the first agile delivery project for the bank, which was a 2 year project.
Management of integration with CBA group
Led the implementation of service virtualisation for Two Factor Authentication project systems. 
Led successful implementation of the International Trade project working with Treasury team in the eastern states.
Won Bankwest Hero award and a trip to Darwin for leading the successful implementation of the two factor authentication project which was one of Bankwest’s biggest and most high profile project.
Mentoring others in testing techniques and methodologies to increase their knowledge and abilities.




BANKWEST
Senior Test Analyst	April 2005 – Jul 2007


Responsibilities 

Perform functional, integration testing and Acceptance testing
Create and execute test cases/scripts from project documentaion
Understanding test requirements and ultimately ensuring all system changes are tested in line with expectations
Preparing test artefacts for complex medium to large projects
Record defect in defect management system (Quality Centre)
Resolve software defects in a timely manner 
Creation and maintenance of regression test repository 
Contributing to estimates, test plans and test documentation as required
Supporting the production implementation of systems
Assisting with the guidance of junior test analysts on test approach and methodology
Actively participating in team initiatives and actions plans
Providing consulting and testing expertise
Contributing to methodology and designing test solutions that are fit-for-purpose.



BUNNINGS
Oracle Developer	Feb 2002 – March 2005

Responsibilities 

Development of Oracle forms and reports
Carrying out design, construction, review and defect analysis activities
Defining and generating screen formats and report designs 
Producing and updating relevant documentation 
Meeting customers face to face and onsite to ascertain requirements 
Providing fixes to defects within agreed SLA
Developing in accordance with policies regarding coding standards 
Develop software in accordance with agreed design with consideration of usability, software quality and future maintained.





QUALIFICATIONS & PROFESSIONAL BODY


Bachelor of Computer Science	2002
Edith Cowan University



PROFESSIONAL TRAINING 

Career Resiliency Course 	2013
Bankwest

Leadership Training  	2013
Bankwest

ISTQB – Advanced Course 	2009
Disqover

ISTQB – Foundation Course 	2007
Disqover

Oracle Tuning 	2004
Sage Computing

PLSQL 	2003
Sage Computing

Oracle Forms & Reports 	2003
Sage Computing


TOOLS




APPLICATION SUPPORT


REFEREES

Caroline Carder 
Head of Solution Testing 
Bankwest 


Kevin Chapman 
Test Delivery Manager 
Bankwest
:
